June 17 or 18 on the way to Godley to do an interview
checking to see if the machine is working.
OK. This is Thursday, June 18. And we're out in
beautiful overlook with a little bit of promise of
shower,
chatting with Fred Palmer, class of 59. I
think I mentioned to you in advance, first
question, why did you go to Texas A&M? Why did you go
to college? How did you go? So forth. Well, I was
like most or many in my generation. I was the first
person in the family, the extended family, that
went to college. And so I was very blessed in that
regard. My mother was the advocate for that. My
daddy was not anti-college. He thought it was a
good idea, but he was not the advocate of it. like my
mama was. And I remember when I was just a little
kid, I was watching when television was very
early, and most of it was snow and a rolling screen.
I was looking at a travel program, something like
the Galapagos Islands or somewhere like that. And
I was raised in a thousand-acre state park, so the
out-of-the-way places and that sort of thing
appealed to me. I said, I'd love to do that someday.
She said, if you get you a good education, there's
no reason you can't do things like that. That's one
of the earliest comments I ever remember about my
aspiration to go to college. I had an uncle that
went to Texas, an uncle that lived with us much of
the time, so he was more like a brother. He was, you
know, 20 years older, but he was like a brother. I
adored him. He went to Texas, and you'd think that
he would have had more influence on my decision to
go to college. But when I was a boy, probably 12 or
something, There were some fisheries biologists
that came to Tyler State Park to do some fish
management. My daddy became fast friends with a
biologist named Cecil Reed. And Cecil was one of
the earlier graduates of A&M with a master's
degree. And Cecil Reed had with him an assistant, a
young man working for the summer. And his name was
Norfleet Bone, Jr. And his daddy was with the Texas
Parks Board. And those guys were Aggies. Between
Mr. Reed and Mr. Bone, they talked about A&M. And
from that point on, I never remember really giving
a lot of ball to go anyplace else with A&M. And I
thought about it mainly because, maybe because I
had an interest in doing wildlife work or
fisheries or something like that. Again, raising
a thousand acre state park out like that. I'd fish
before I'd go to school in the morning, things like
that sometimes. So my interest was very early in
A&M. And it might have been directed more toward
the studies, but I think I remember clearly the
fervor that those guys had. And they talked about
A&M all the time or A&M caps and that sort of thing.
For some reason, that influence was indelible on
me, relative even to my hunger. He was a student. I
visited with him. I went down and spent a few days
with him one time in his apartment there in Texas.
But for some reason, that never had a good, as they
said, he didn't get a good scald on me. But those
Aggies had a real interesting impact on my life. So
when I got to high school, my interest was in
studying wildlife work of some kind. And it just
followed that I would do that. Now, I was prepared
to go to A&M while my friends were going to Air Force
ROTC and everything. My family had some real
severe financial reversals when I was about a
junior in high school. And it had to do with the
lawsuit involving integration, a class action
lawsuit. by the NAACP against the Texas State
Parks Board because blacks could not come into the
state parks. They sued them. They closed Tyler
State Park. My dad was a caretaker there. Instead
of a manager, he became a caretaker. And the pay was
dismal. We all had jobs doing something. He pumped
oil wells and, you know, hauled rocks and did
whatever he had to do. When I got ready to go to A&M,
we sat down. He said, I don't think you can go. So I
went to Tyler Junior College for two years, trying
to transfer all the while. In those days, when
Daddy said, I don't think you can go, you didn't
say, Dad, I think you're wrong. I think I will. That
wasn't done. It was just not discussed anymore. He
was a decision maker, and that's what was done. As
soon as I could, I transferred to A&M. So you came as
a junior. Well, I came in the junior year. That's
what I mean. I was short on hours to transfer. Yeah.
I spent three years at A&M. All right. Now one of the
things I've been asking everybody is describe
when you came to enroll for the first time. How did
you get there and what did you bring with you
physically? What gear, what equipment? That's a
great question because you don't think about that
very much. I went to A&M.
My dad had a state pickup, and they stayed right
there in the state parks. They had transportation
up to the store at the entrance of the park and so on.
So I was able to borrow the family car, and my best
friend from home was going to A&M, too. We had dates
the evening before, took them home, went back out
of our place in the Sandflat community off of
Tyler, got our gear, which consisted basically
probably just the basic stuff, a few things on
hangers and duffel bags or something like that, or
suitcases, and we took off. We got to A&M before
dawn. We drove that night and got there before
dawn. We parked over by the old MSC, and I remember
sitting out there when the sun started coming up,
the water sprinklers came up. And we sat there as
the sun came up. The sprinters came on water in
Simpson Drill Field. And it came down to register,
and we did not know straight up. Only thing, that's
the first time I'd ever seen Texas A&M. And I had a
map, I guess, because in those days when you
started trying to get in, the first thing I
remember was, But you started getting a
tremendous amount of literature from Lupo's and
places like that, the college bookstore.
Exciting time. I remember that so well. And this
fall of 56? This would be the fall of 57. 57, OK. And
so anyway. All right, then you register. Where did
you? Went to Sevesa. Found their way. Didn't even
know where it was. Had a map, I guess, as I recall. We
probably did. Made it to Sevesa. One of the most
frustrating days of my entire life was
registration. I didn't know anything about it.
Been to junior college, which is easy. Went to
Sabisa Hall, and they had this huge, you know,
congregation of tables all over the place with
signs about what it was. And I'm sitting there
trying to work out a schedule. No counseling at
all. Go over in the section before, and none were
open. Then I go back, and it took me probably close
to half a day to register. And I was so frustrated, I
didn't know which end was up. And what I ended up
taking, and whoever knows how that worked out. But
that was really a very frustrating thing, because
I didn't know where to go, didn't know what I was
doing. And it was a trial and error thing, but I put
some kind of a schedule together. Describe the
campus. What did it look like, and what was there?
Well, in my mind, it's the campus as everybody
remembers it. I'm sure, but that's of course not
the case. The water tower was there, the
smokestacks were there. It was back when the old
laundry was down there by the, you know, down there
by the north gate. And the gyne hall was there. MSC
was small. It had been built I think in 50 or
something like that. And a friendly place, I
remember that. And of course all male. Most of the
guys were in uniform and I felt like a left shoe on
the right foot all the way. I knew what I had missed.
I still know what I had missed. That is one of the
great regrets of my life. I can't change it. I can't
fret over it, but I'm a great advocate of A&M's
Corps of Cadets because they were there and they
did it. I wasn't there, but I observed it up close
and I knew what I was missing at the time. So that
campus is mostly core. The core guys have marched
the chapel. And I believe they marched the chapel
in the morning, in the evening, and I don't know
about the lunch. I don't know that they would have
been launched. I think that's correct. And where
did you live? I lived over in dorm 16, which is over
the campus there. And I can't remember, is it Gary
Hall or something, Davis Gary or something? I
believe so. That area over there, dorm 16, it runs
parallel to 60 out there. And we used to sit up there
in that room and watch the cadets go out and all the
Aggies do a midnight show over at the campus there.
But I lived in 16, and I think it was the rest of my
time, that's the first year, the rest of my time I
was over in Walton Hall, which is the old athletic
dorm. Athletes moved out and students went in
there. Describe a typical, the routine of a
typical day classes, day of classes. What time did
you get up, what did you do, where, when? Well, I
don't know what the cause is, but in those days, it
would be very, very, well, I don't know anybody
took 13, 14 hours. Everybody took 17, 18, 19 hours.
I was in wildlife work, a wildlife major, and so lab
was just typical. Those are lab courses. To take an
English course or something like that was almost a
break because I'm not saying I excelled in those,
but the point is it was a relief because I took so
many lab courses that typically school was all day
long, or many of the days it was. And so that was, we
got up in the morning and my men in the Corps, I tried
to go to breakfast. Mama taught me to try to go to
breakfast. In Sevesa? In Sevesa. And they had the
Corps at one end of Sevesa and the non-regs up on the
other end, not the other end, on the east end of
Sevesa I believe it was. And of course we were
intermingling to a certain extent, but we were
segregated for the most part. And the waiters of
course waited tables, family style. and went to
breakfast, and I think meals must have cost us
right under 50 cents a piece. We bought a meal
ticket. It wasn't a deal where you bought kind of a
meal ticket and ate over at Northgate because you
couldn't afford it, number one. The second thing
is we just, I'm not saying no one did it. I didn't
know anybody that did that. So we had meal tickets
for the semester, had laundry. I think the meals
were about, they averaged a little less than 50
cents a piece. Good food, frankly. We all brag, but
that's what you're supposed to do. I think laundry
was something like $13 a semester and running for
something like $12 a semester. I went to class,
went to lunch at Sabisa. Usually have classes at 1
o'clock. I don't remember what it's like not to
have classes at 1 o'clock. And by golly, I was in
class for the most part. Unfortunately, when I
didn't have class, instead of going to my room and
studying for the most part, we had intramurals and
being a wildlife guy, especially in my last year,
Sometimes we'd go out to the river and go fishing or
take in those wildlife courses. I'd go up to
Binoculars out over 30 and 60 intersects south of
Campbell's out there. Those are cotton fields
now, but that was a freshwater marsh out there in
those days. We'd go up there to Binoculars from the
Wildlife Department and watch waterfowl and
stuff like that. Did some, had some wildlife
projects out around by the airport, little lakes
out around the airport. And that's what I did on my
days. In the evenings we'd go to chow. And I'm sorry
to say that we had usually a pretty big bull session
in our room right after chat. Instead of studying,
everybody came to the room and shot the bull. All
right, then let's do a Saturday afternoon and
evening. What did you and your friends do? Well, it
may lead into something we need to talk about later
on, but my first semester, I was dating a girl who
was head majorette at Tyler High School. And I
thought, of course, she was the prettiest thing I
ever met. And wouldn't you know it, I met her this
summer for good. And we dated all the time. I lived
out at the state park 10 miles out, and the girls
would come out there, and we spent a lot of time
together and had a great relationship. When I went
off to A&M, she continued to date, and I was going to
also, but the only difference was there were no
girls at A&M. So we had Saturday classes. I'd get
our class at noon on Saturday. And I typically had
that little maroon Aggie bag, and I'd throw some
underwear and socks and a shirt or something in
there and take off and hitchhike to Thailand. I did
that almost every weekend, except football
weekends. And I remember having a date, and maybe
she came that one weekend or something for
football. I don't think my mom or daddy brought her
down there. And we were home at football. You know,
and then we'd go after football. We'd hang around,
shoot the breeze. There wasn't really much to do.
We felt very, very affluent. We would go to the
Mexican restaurant, Mexican food restaurant,
over where Hilton is now, back this side, back the
college side of Hilton. Mexican restaurant out
there, back in the trees, no paved roads or
anything. We'd go out there. Or go down to the
Triangle, which is where Tom's Barbecue, I think,
is, right in through there. Or go down to the Texan.
The Texan wasn't a high dollar place. Now, those
had car hops in those days. And we'd go down there.
Occasionally we'd go down to Humdinger, which is a
little, looks like a little sheet metal building
down in that area somewhere, before you got to that
area, right before you got to the Triangle or
something, maybe just past it. And we'd drink
beer, and I think at night it cost 20 cents a bottle
or something like that. And we didn't drink a lot of
beer. We'd go down and have a beer or two, you know,
something. Couldn't afford it to begin with. I was
on borrowed money, but basically the whole time.
Youngbloods was there. Occasionally go to
Youngbloods. Martin's, the barbecue place over
there, was there. And Steve, Bohemian fella, had
that thing. It would go down there and make a beer or
something. But that's kind of exaggerating our
life. We did that. That's what we did when we did
anything. Go to Guy and to the movies, you know. And
I think in the spring, the Grove was open. I think it
was. I've been to the Grove to movies before, but
also went on summer tour. Did Did anybody ever go to
Whiskey Bridge? Whiskey Bridge. I never did go to
Whiskey Bridge because I didn't drink whiskey.
But occasionally guys would start playing cards
on Saturday afternoon late and end up somewhere at
Whiskey Bridge. I was well aware of it, and I knew
where it was, but I didn't personally go to Whiskey
Bridge. Correct me if I'm wrong. Whiskey was legal
to purchase in Burleson County. That's right,
right across the province. Did, normally, did
they drink it over there or bring it back this side
of the river? Oh, I doubt they drank it over there. I
think they brought it back. In the rooms, there
weren't room searches or anything. I mean, that
really, in retrospect, it was a pretty clean-cut
bunch of kids. They did some drinking, but it was
not a, and loud, but in other water fights, and
jacking around with somebody in the dorm. It was
just mischievous stuff, but there was a pretty
doggone clean-cut bunch of guys. Let's see. Let's
talk about dorm or campus good bull pranks, jokes.
Describe as many of those as you can think of. Well,
of course, the most common thing that was
widespread was water fights. And to use the
vernacular those days, the crapper heads were on
those commodes. And, you know, you go through the
showers, and if you flushed the commodes at one
time or the urinals at one time, they used the cold
water so it got real hot in the showers. You're
supposed to holler crapper when you flush. That
way the guy can step out of the shower and let the
time of the cold water come back and not scald him
when he's in there. There was always a guy or two
around that was kind of a nerd or a jerk or
something, you know, like that. So it was always
kind of fun to run down there. when they were in the
shower. Sneak in there and flush all of those at one
time. Get to hot water, hot all of a sudden on these
guys. And of course they'd run out and you'd leave.
That was kind of good for them. Water fights were a
big thing. Dorm, between dorms, and they'd get
wastebasket, turn the showers on. The showers
were, there were showers that had shower heads on
each side of the little room. You'd walk through
there down one side, back out the other, and
probably most of us didn't have on a stitch. Maybe
bathing suits, maybe our clothes, and go through
there, fill those wastebasket baskets up, run out
of the dorm, have huge water fights out there. It
normally would start with somebody studying
their room in the springtime, and somebody having
a wastebasket full of water, and going to throw
water from the school.